Alternate approach to updating registry without adding @extra_features to Model (#3360)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/development/model-features.md

> # Registry Model Features

Reviewer: I'm not opposed to splitting this out into a separate document, but note that there was some existing documentation of the `model_features` registry in `nautobot/docs/development/application-registry.md` that can now probably be removed and replaced with a link to this file?

Author: Sure it can be done

> A dictionary of particular features (e.g. custom fields) mapped to the Nautobot models which support them, arranged by app.

Reviewer: Seems like it'd be logical to document `@extras_features` in this same file, unless we're planning to remove it entirely before 2.0.0 ships?

Author: I don't think there is a plan on removing `@extra_features`? @nautobot/core.

Im not also sure there is any detailed documentation for `@extra_features` currently existing in our docs

Reviewer: That was my point :) We don't have a good document for that but if it's going to stick around we *should* document it, and this would be the logical file to do so in. Not blocking for this PR though.

## Add a new feature to the `model_features` registry

The `populate_model_features_registry()` function updates the registry model features with new apps. This is done by defining a list of dictionaries called `lookup_confs`. Each dictionary in `lookup_confs` contains the following three keys:

- `feature_name`: The name of the feature to be updated in the registry.
- `field_names`: A list of names of fields that must be present in order for the model to be considered a valid `model_feature`.

> - `field_attributes`: An optional dictionary of attributes to filter the fields by. Only model which fields match all the attributes specified in the dictionary will be considered. This parameter can be useful to narrow down the search for fields that match certain criteria. For example, if `field_attributes` is set to `{"related_model": RelationshipAssociation}`, only fields attr with `related_model` of `RelationshipAssociation` will be considered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `field_attributes`: An optional dictionary of attributes used to filter the fields. Only model which fields match all the attributes specified in the dictionary will be considered. This parameter can be useful to narrow down the search for fields that match certain criteria. For example, if `field_attributes` is set to `{"related_model": RelationshipAssociation}`, only fields attr with `related_model` of `RelationshipAssociation` will be considered.
```

To add a new feature to the `lookup_confs` list, follow these steps:

> 1. Determine the name of the feature to be added.

Reviewer: Should this be a `slug` rather than a `name`? I don't think there's anything *preventing* you from using a string with whitespace, capital letters, etc., but by convention we're using `snake_case` for all existing features.

> 1. Determine the name of the feature to be added.

Author: Maybe?
```suggestion
1. Determine the name of the feature to be added, This name should be in `snake_case` as per convention
```

2. Determine the names of the fields that must be present in order for the model to be considered a valid `model_feature`.
3. (Optional) Determine any field attributes that can be used to filter the fields if `field_names` would not be enough. 
4. Add a new dictionary with the following keys to `lookup_confs` which is in  `nautobot.extras.utils.populate_model_features_registry()`:
    - `feature_name`: The name of the feature.
    - `field_names`: The list of names of fields.
    - `field_attributes`: (Optional) The dictionary of attributes to filter the fields.

```python
def populate_model_features_registry():
    """..."""

    lookup_confs = [
        ...,
        {
            "feature_name": "foo",
            "field_names": ["bar"],
            "field_attributes": {"choices": FooBarChoices}
        },
       ...
    ]
```

> With this only Models which has a field name of `bar` and its field `bar` has the attribute choices=FooBarChoices would be a valid model for the feature `"foo"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this only Models which have a field name of `bar`, which in turn has the attribute `choices=FooBarChoices`, would be a valid model for the feature `"foo"`
```

> With this only Models which have a field name of `bar`, which in turn has the attribute `choices=FooBarChoices`, would be a valid model for the feature `"foo"`

Reviewer 3: same comment here

!!! note

>    Only add a feature to lookup_confs if it does not require the use of `@extras_features`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Only add a feature to `lookup_confs` if it does not require the use of `@extras_features`.
```

3. (Optional) Determine any field attributes that can be used to filter the fields if `field_names` would not be enough.
4. Add a new dictionary with the following keys to `lookup_confs` which is in  `nautobot.extras.utils.populate_model_features_registry()`:
    - `feature_name`: The name of the feature.
    - `field_names`: The list of names of fields.
    - `field_attributes`: (Optional) The dictionary of attributes to filter the fields.

```python
from nautobot.extras.models.relationships import RelationshipAssociation

def populate_model_features_registry():
    """..."""

    lookup_confs = [
        ...,
        {
            "feature_name": "relationships",
            "field_names": ["source_for_associations", "destination_for_associations"],
            "field_attributes": {"related_model": RelationshipAssociation},
        },
       ...
    ]
```

With this only Models which have fields names of `source_for_associations` and `destination_for_associations`, which in turn has the attribute `related_model=RelationshipAssociation`, would be a valid model for the feature `relationships`.

> !!! note
>    Only add a feature to `lookup_confs` if it does not require the use of `@extras_features`.

Reviewer: Without documenting how/where to use `extras_features`, this note is a bit obtuse in isolation. I'd think a note like the following might be better?

```suggestion
!!! note
   `populate_model_features_registry()` and `lookup_confs` provide an alternative to the older method of feature flagging models via the `@extras_features` decorator. In general new feature flags should preferentially be implemented via additions to `lookup_confs`, *not* by any new additions to `extras_features`.
```
